README.md, before:

# F1 Telemetry Simulator

A high-performance, multi-threaded Formula 1 telemetry data generator and processing system written in C++. This project simulates realistic F1 race telemetry with driver behavior, car characteristics, and track dynamics.

## Features

- **Real-time Telemetry Generation**: Simulates F1 race data at 50Hz (20ms intervals)
- **Beautiful Terminal Display**: Color-coded live leaderboard with emojis, progress bars, and real-time stats
- **Multi-threaded Architecture**: Producer-consumer pattern with condition variables for efficient blocking
- **2025 F1 Grid**: Full 20-driver lineup across 10 teams with realistic driver characteristics
- **Realistic Driver Profiles**: Models driver behavior including aggression, consistency, tire management, and risk tolerance
- **Car Performance Simulation**: Simulates engine power, aerodynamic efficiency, cooling, and reliability
- **Dynamic Race Positions**: Real-time position calculation based on total distance traveled
- **Tire Wear Modeling**: Progressive tire degradation based on driver aggression and track characteristics
- **Advanced Pit Stop Strategy**: Variable pit stop thresholds based on driver tire management and risk tolerance
- **Optimal Strategy Analysis (Optional)**: Find a best pit lap for selected drivers and apply it to the live race
  - Uses parallel simulation via `std::async` + `std::future` to evaluate multiple candidate pit laps
- **Track Limits Monitoring**: Realistic track limits violation detection with warnings and penalties
  - Checks for violations at sector boundaries (not every frame) for realistic frequency
  - Violation probability based on driver aggression, speed, and tire wear
  - 3 warnings trigger a penalty flag
- **Driver Skill Factor**: Consistency affects how much performance drivers can extract from their cars
- **Track Configuration**: Configurable track profiles with sectors, lap length, and environmental factors

## Architecture

The system uses a producer-consumer architecture with a thread-safe ring buffer:

```
┌─────────────────┐         ┌──────────────┐         ┌─────────────────┐
│ Telemetry       │         │   Ring       │         │   Consumer      │
│ Generator       │────────▶│   Buffer     │────────▶│   Thread        │
│ (Producer)      │         │  (1024 cap)  │         │   (Display)     │
└─────────────────┘         └──────────────┘         └─────────────────┘
```

### Components

- **TelemetryGenerator**: Generates telemetry frames for all 20 drivers every 20ms, simulating speed, tire wear, sector progression, and race positions. Implements driver skill factors and variable pit stop strategies.
- **RingBuffer**: Thread-safe circular buffer using condition variables (`std::condition_variable`) for efficient blocking instead of busy-waiting. Supports graceful shutdown mechanism.
- **StrategyAnalyzer**: Optional pre-race strategy module that searches for an optimal pit lap for selected drivers.
- **RaceSimulator**: Lightweight race simulation used by the strategy analyzer to evaluate pit lap candidates.
- **TrackLimitsMonitor**: Monitors track limits violations, checking at sector boundaries for realistic frequency. Tracks warnings and penalties per driver with thread-safe access.
- **Main Application**: Orchestrates strategy analysis (optional), track limits monitoring, and the producer/consumer threads, and renders the live race leaderboard.

## Building

### Requirements

- C++17 compatible compiler (GCC 7+, Clang 5+, or MSVC 2017+)
- POSIX threads support (pthread)

### Compilation

```bash
g++ -std=c++17 -I src \
  src/main.cpp \
  src/telemetry/TelemetryGenerator.cpp \
  src/strategy/RaceSimulator.cpp \
  src/strategy/StrategyAnalyzer.cpp \
  src/race-control/TrackLimitsMonitor.cpp \
  -o f1-telemetry -pthread
```

Or using clang:

```bash
clang++ -std=c++17 -I src \
  src/main.cpp \
  src/telemetry/TelemetryGenerator.cpp \
  src/strategy/RaceSimulator.cpp \
  src/strategy/StrategyAnalyzer.cpp \
  src/race-control/TrackLimitsMonitor.cpp \
  -o f1-telemetry -pthread
```

## Usage

1. **Run the simulator**:
   ```bash
   ./f1-telemetry
   ```

2. **(Optional) Run optimal strategy analysis**:
   - When prompted, type `y`
   - Enter driver indices (comma-separated, no spaces), e.g. `4,6,1`
   - The program prints the chosen pit lap per selected driver
   - Then it prints the full list of strategies that will be used and waits for **Enter** before starting the race

2. **View the live race**: The terminal displays a beautiful, color-coded leaderboard:
   ```
   🏁 LAP 15/50 🏁
   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   P1 🔴 Charles Leclerc      █████████░ Lap 15  Speed: 210 kph  Tire: 25%
   P2 🔵 Max Verstappen       ████████░░ Lap 14  Speed: 205 kph  Tire: 32%  
   P3 ⚪ Lewis Hamilton       ███████░░░ Lap 14  Speed: 198 kph  Tire: 28%
   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   ```

   **Display Features:**
   - Color-coded positions (Gold/Silver/Bronze for top 3)
   - Team emojis for all 10 teams:
     - 🔴 Ferrari, 🔵 Red Bull, ⚪ Mercedes, 🟠 McLaren
     - 🟢 Aston Martin, 💙 Alpine/Williams, ⚫ Racing Bulls/Kick Sauber
   - Progress bars showing sector completion within current lap
   - Color-coded speed (green = fast, yellow = medium, red = slow)
   - Color-coded tire wear (green = fresh, yellow = worn, red = critical)
   - Purple "[IN PITS]" indicator during pit stops
   - Real-time updates showing all 20 drivers

3. **Race end**: The simulation runs until the leader completes the configured number of laps, then prints the winner.

## Project Structure

```
f1-telemetry/
├── src/
│   ├── main.cpp                    # Main application entry point
│   ├── common/
│   │   └── types.h                 # Data structures (TelemetryFrame, DriverProfile, CarProfile, TrackProfile)
│   ├── telemetry/
│   │   ├── TelemetryGenerator.h    # Telemetry generation class interface
│   │   └── TelemetryGenerator.cpp  # Telemetry generation implementation
│   ├── strategy/
│   │   ├── StrategyAnalyzer.h      # Strategy analysis interface
│   │   ├── StrategyAnalyzer.cpp   # Strategy analysis implementation
│   │   ├── RaceSimulator.h         # Race simulation interface
│   │   └── RaceSimulator.cpp      # Race simulation implementation
│   ├── race-control/
│   │   ├── TrackLimitsMonitor.h    # Track limits monitoring interface
│   │   └── TrackLimitsMonitor.cpp # Track limits monitoring implementation
│   └── ingestion/
│       └── RingBuffer.h            # Thread-safe ring buffer implementation
└── README.md
```

## Data Models

### DriverProfile
Models driver behavior characteristics:
- `aggression`: Affects tire wear rate (0.0 - 1.0)
- `consistency`: Lap time variance (0.0 - 1.0)
- `tire_management`: Resistance to tire degradation (0.0 - 1.0)
- `risk_tolerance`: Willingness to take risks (0.0 - 1.0)

### CarProfile
Models car performance characteristics:
- `engine_power`: Top speed capability (0.0 - 1.0)
- `aero_efficiency`: Cornering and downforce (0.0 - 1.0)
- `cooling_efficiency`: Tire temperature stability (0.0 - 1.0)
- `reliability`: Failure probability (0.0 - 1.0)

### TelemetryFrame
Contains per-frame race data:
- Race position, timestamp, driver ID
- Lap number, sector number
- Speed, throttle, brake inputs
- Tire temperatures (FL, FR, RL, RR)
- Tire wear percentage

### TrackProfile
Defines track characteristics:
- Number of sectors, lap length
- Tire wear factor
- Overtaking difficulty
- Safety car probability

## Example Configuration

The default configuration includes the full 2025 F1 grid with 20 drivers across 10 teams:

**Top Teams:**
- **Max Verstappen** (Red Bull): High aggression (0.88), exceptional consistency (0.98), excellent tire management (0.88)
- **Charles Leclerc** (Ferrari): Very aggressive (0.94), high consistency (0.96), good tire management (0.85)
- **Lando Norris** (McLaren): High aggression (0.82), excellent consistency (0.94), good tire management (0.86)
- **Oscar Piastri** (McLaren): Moderate aggression (0.74), excellent consistency (0.90), good tire management (0.84)

**Notable Situations:**
- **Lewis Hamilton** (Ferrari): Struggling with adaptation - reduced consistency (0.72) and tire management (0.78)
- **Yuki Tsunoda** (Red Bull): Rookie at top team - low consistency (0.58) and tire management (0.58)

## Technical Details

### Thread Safety & Synchronization
- **Condition Variables**: Ring buffer uses `std::condition_variable` for efficient blocking
  - `cv_not_empty_`: Consumer waits when buffer is empty (instead of busy-waiting)
  - Eliminates CPU spinning and reduces power consumption
- **Mutex Protection**: `std::mutex` with `std::unique_lock` for thread-safe operations
- **Graceful Shutdown**: `shutdown()` method notifies all waiting threads and prevents new operations
- **Atomic Flags**: Used for race finish detection and thread coordination

### Performance
- Ring buffer capacity: 1024 frames (configurable)
- Update rate: 50Hz (20ms per frame)
- Zero busy-waiting: Condition variables ensure threads sleep when waiting
- Low-latency design: Minimal blocking between producer and consumer
- Efficient wake-up: Only one thread notified per operation (`notify_one()`)

### Advanced Simulation Features
- **Driver Skill Factor**: Speed calculation includes `driver_skill = 0.80 + consistency * 0.25`, meaning consistent drivers extract more performance
- **Variable Pit Stop Thresholds**: Range from 65-90% tire wear based on:
  - Base: `0.65 + (tire_management * 0.25)`
  - Risk adjustment: `±7.5%` based on risk tolerance
- **Variable Pit Stop Duration**: 2-3 seconds based on car reliability
- **Position Calculation**: Real-time sorting by total distance (lap distance + distance in current lap)

## Implementation Highlights

### Condition Variables
The ring buffer implementation uses condition variables to eliminate busy-waiting:

```cpp
// Consumer waits efficiently when buffer is empty
cv_not_empty_.wait(lock, [this]() { 
    return head_ != tail_ || shutdown_;
});
```

The consumer sleeps when the buffer is empty, reducing CPU usage and improving system efficiency.

### Driver Performance Model
Driver consistency directly impacts speed:
- High consistency (0.95+): Can extract 100%+ of car performance
- Low consistency (0.60): Only extracts ~80% of car performance
- This creates realistic performance gaps between drivers

### Pit Stop Strategy
Each driver has a unique pit stop threshold:
- Tire management experts (0.95): Pit at ~90% wear
- Rookies (0.58): Pit at ~70% wear (more cautious)
- Risk-takers: Pit slightly earlier, conservative drivers later

### Optimal Strategy Analysis (how it works)
When enabled at startup, the program can compute an "optimal" pit lap for a subset of drivers and feed those pit laps into the live telemetry generator.

- **Candidate laps**: `StrategyAnalyzer::PIT_LAPS_TO_TEST` defines a small set of laps to evaluate (e.g. 12, 15, 18, ...).
- **Parallel evaluation**: For a given driver, the analyzer launches multiple simulations concurrently using `std::async(std::launch::async, ...)` and collects results with `std::future<float>`.
- **Selection**: The lap with the lowest simulated finish time is chosen and applied to the live race as a single planned pit stop for that driver.

### Track Limits Monitoring (how it works)
The `TrackLimitsMonitor` processes telemetry frames to detect track limits violations with realistic frequency and consequences.

- **Sector-based checking**: Violations are only checked at sector boundaries (not every frame), ensuring realistic frequency (approximately 3 checks per lap instead of 50 per second).
- **Violation probability factors**:
  - **Aggression**: `driver.aggression * 0.01` - More aggressive drivers push limits more often
  - **Speed**: `0.005` if speed > 200 kph - Higher speeds increase violation risk
  - **Tire wear**: `tire_wear * 0.01` if wear > 60% - Worn tires reduce control
- **Penalty system**: 
  - Each violation adds a warning and records the lap number
  - After **3 warnings**, the driver receives a penalty flag (`has_penalty = true`)
- **Thread safety**: Uses `std::mutex` to protect the violations map during concurrent access from producer and consumer threads

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements:
- [ ] DRS (Drag Reduction System) modeling
- [ ] Safety car deployment
- [ ] Virtual Safety Car (VSC)
- [ ] Multi-track support with track-specific characteristics
- [ ] Qualifying sessions with grid positions
- [ ] Race incidents and DNFs (crashes, mechanical failures)
- [ ] Strategy variations (one-stop vs two-stop races)
- [ ] Yellow flag periods affecting speed

Commit message:

Update README.md to include details about the PenaltyEnforcer, enhancing the explanation of the penalty system and its integration with track limits monitoring. Add descriptions of the PenaltyEnforcer's functionality, including issuing, serving, and completing penalties during race simulations.

README.md, after:

# F1 Telemetry Simulator

A high-performance, multi-threaded Formula 1 telemetry data generator and processing system written in C++. This project simulates realistic F1 race telemetry with driver behavior, car characteristics, and track dynamics.

## Features

- **Real-time Telemetry Generation**: Simulates F1 race data at 50Hz (20ms intervals)
- **Beautiful Terminal Display**: Color-coded live leaderboard with emojis, progress bars, and real-time stats
- **Multi-threaded Architecture**: Producer-consumer pattern with condition variables for efficient blocking
- **2025 F1 Grid**: Full 20-driver lineup across 10 teams with realistic driver characteristics
- **Realistic Driver Profiles**: Models driver behavior including aggression, consistency, tire management, and risk tolerance
- **Car Performance Simulation**: Simulates engine power, aerodynamic efficiency, cooling, and reliability
- **Dynamic Race Positions**: Real-time position calculation based on total distance traveled
- **Tire Wear Modeling**: Progressive tire degradation based on driver aggression and track characteristics
- **Advanced Pit Stop Strategy**: Variable pit stop thresholds based on driver tire management and risk tolerance
- **Optimal Strategy Analysis (Optional)**: Find a best pit lap for selected drivers and apply it to the live race
  - Uses parallel simulation via `std::async` + `std::future` to evaluate multiple candidate pit laps
- **Track Limits Monitoring**: Realistic track limits violation detection with warnings and penalties
  - Checks for violations at sector boundaries (not every frame) for realistic frequency
  - Violation probability based on driver aggression, speed, and tire wear
  - 3 warnings trigger a penalty flag and issue a time penalty
- **Penalty Enforcer**: Tracks issued penalties and enforces them during pit stops using simulation time
- **Driver Skill Factor**: Consistency affects how much performance drivers can extract from their cars
- **Track Configuration**: Configurable track profiles with sectors, lap length, and environmental factors

## Architecture

The system uses a producer-consumer architecture with a thread-safe ring buffer:

```
┌─────────────────┐         ┌──────────────┐         ┌─────────────────┐
│ Telemetry       │         │   Ring       │         │   Consumer      │
│ Generator       │────────▶│   Buffer     │────────▶│   Thread        │
│ (Producer)      │         │  (1024 cap)  │         │   (Display)     │
└─────────────────┘         └──────────────┘         └─────────────────┘
```

### Components

- **TelemetryGenerator**: Generates telemetry frames for all 20 drivers every 20ms, simulating speed, tire wear, sector progression, and race positions. Implements driver skill factors and variable pit stop strategies.
- **RingBuffer**: Thread-safe circular buffer using condition variables (`std::condition_variable`) for efficient blocking instead of busy-waiting. Supports graceful shutdown mechanism.
- **StrategyAnalyzer**: Optional pre-race strategy module that searches for an optimal pit lap for selected drivers.
- **RaceSimulator**: Lightweight race simulation used by the strategy analyzer to evaluate pit lap candidates.
- **TrackLimitsMonitor**: Monitors track limits violations, checking at sector boundaries for realistic frequency. Tracks warnings and penalties per driver with thread-safe access.
- **PenaltyEnforcer**: Thread-safe penalty state machine. Stores penalties per driver and is consulted by the telemetry generator to add penalty time during pit stops.
- **Main Application**: Orchestrates strategy analysis (optional), track limits monitoring, and the producer/consumer threads, and renders the live race leaderboard.

## Building

### Requirements

- C++17 compatible compiler (GCC 7+, Clang 5+, or MSVC 2017+)
- POSIX threads support (pthread)

### Compilation

```bash
g++ -std=c++17 -I src \
  src/main.cpp \
  src/telemetry/TelemetryGenerator.cpp \
  src/strategy/RaceSimulator.cpp \
  src/strategy/StrategyAnalyzer.cpp \
  src/race-control/TrackLimitsMonitor.cpp \
  src/race-control/PenaltyEnforcer.cpp \
  -o f1-telemetry -pthread
```

Or using clang:

```bash
clang++ -std=c++17 -I src \
  src/main.cpp \
  src/telemetry/TelemetryGenerator.cpp \
  src/strategy/RaceSimulator.cpp \
  src/strategy/StrategyAnalyzer.cpp \
  src/race-control/TrackLimitsMonitor.cpp \
  src/race-control/PenaltyEnforcer.cpp \
  -o f1-telemetry -pthread
```

## Usage

1. **Run the simulator**:
   ```bash
   ./f1-telemetry
   ```

2. **(Optional) Run optimal strategy analysis**:
   - When prompted, type `y`
   - Enter driver indices (comma-separated, no spaces), e.g. `4,6,1`
   - The program prints the chosen pit lap per selected driver
   - Then it prints the full list of strategies that will be used and waits for **Enter** before starting the race

2. **View the live race**: The terminal displays a beautiful, color-coded leaderboard:
   ```
   🏁 LAP 15/50 🏁
   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   P1 🔴 Charles Leclerc      █████████░ Lap 15  Speed: 210 kph  Tire: 25%
   P2 🔵 Max Verstappen       ████████░░ Lap 14  Speed: 205 kph  Tire: 32%  
   P3 ⚪ Lewis Hamilton       ███████░░░ Lap 14  Speed: 198 kph  Tire: 28%
   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
   ```

   **Display Features:**
   - Color-coded positions (Gold/Silver/Bronze for top 3)
   - Team emojis for all 10 teams:
     - 🔴 Ferrari, 🔵 Red Bull, ⚪ Mercedes, 🟠 McLaren
     - 🟢 Aston Martin, 💙 Alpine/Williams, ⚫ Racing Bulls/Kick Sauber
   - Progress bars showing sector completion within current lap
   - Color-coded speed (green = fast, yellow = medium, red = slow)
   - Color-coded tire wear (green = fresh, yellow = worn, red = critical)
   - Purple "[IN PITS]" indicator during pit stops
   - Real-time updates showing all 20 drivers

3. **Race end**: The simulation runs until the leader completes the configured number of laps, then prints the winner.

## Project Structure

```
f1-telemetry/
├── src/
│   ├── main.cpp                    # Main application entry point
│   ├── common/
│   │   └── types.h                 # Data structures (TelemetryFrame, DriverProfile, CarProfile, TrackProfile)
│   ├── telemetry/
│   │   ├── TelemetryGenerator.h    # Telemetry generation class interface
│   │   └── TelemetryGenerator.cpp  # Telemetry generation implementation
│   ├── strategy/
│   │   ├── StrategyAnalyzer.h      # Strategy analysis interface
│   │   ├── StrategyAnalyzer.cpp   # Strategy analysis implementation
│   │   ├── RaceSimulator.h         # Race simulation interface
│   │   └── RaceSimulator.cpp      # Race simulation implementation
│   ├── race-control/
│   │   ├── TrackLimitsMonitor.h    # Track limits monitoring interface
│   │   └── TrackLimitsMonitor.cpp # Track limits monitoring implementation
│   │   ├── PenaltyEnforcer.h       # Penalty state machine interface
│   │   └── PenaltyEnforcer.cpp     # Penalty state machine implementation
│   └── ingestion/
│       └── RingBuffer.h            # Thread-safe ring buffer implementation
└── README.md
```

## Data Models

### DriverProfile
Models driver behavior characteristics:
- `aggression`: Affects tire wear rate (0.0 - 1.0)
- `consistency`: Lap time variance (0.0 - 1.0)
- `tire_management`: Resistance to tire degradation (0.0 - 1.0)
- `risk_tolerance`: Willingness to take risks (0.0 - 1.0)

### CarProfile
Models car performance characteristics:
- `engine_power`: Top speed capability (0.0 - 1.0)
- `aero_efficiency`: Cornering and downforce (0.0 - 1.0)
- `cooling_efficiency`: Tire temperature stability (0.0 - 1.0)
- `reliability`: Failure probability (0.0 - 1.0)

### TelemetryFrame
Contains per-frame race data:
- Race position, timestamp, driver ID
- Lap number, sector number
- Speed, throttle, brake inputs
- Tire temperatures (FL, FR, RL, RR)
- Tire wear percentage

### TrackProfile
Defines track characteristics:
- Number of sectors, lap length
- Tire wear factor
- Overtaking difficulty
- Safety car probability

## Example Configuration

The default configuration includes the full 2025 F1 grid with 20 drivers across 10 teams:

**Top Teams:**
- **Max Verstappen** (Red Bull): High aggression (0.88), exceptional consistency (0.98), excellent tire management (0.88)
- **Charles Leclerc** (Ferrari): Very aggressive (0.94), high consistency (0.96), good tire management (0.85)
- **Lando Norris** (McLaren): High aggression (0.82), excellent consistency (0.94), good tire management (0.86)
- **Oscar Piastri** (McLaren): Moderate aggression (0.74), excellent consistency (0.90), good tire management (0.84)

**Notable Situations:**
- **Lewis Hamilton** (Ferrari): Struggling with adaptation - reduced consistency (0.72) and tire management (0.78)
- **Yuki Tsunoda** (Red Bull): Rookie at top team - low consistency (0.58) and tire management (0.58)

## Technical Details

### Thread Safety & Synchronization
- **Condition Variables**: Ring buffer uses `std::condition_variable` for efficient blocking
  - `cv_not_empty_`: Consumer waits when buffer is empty (instead of busy-waiting)
  - Eliminates CPU spinning and reduces power consumption
- **Mutex Protection**: `std::mutex` with `std::unique_lock` for thread-safe operations
- **Graceful Shutdown**: `shutdown()` method notifies all waiting threads and prevents new operations
- **Atomic Flags**: Used for race finish detection and thread coordination

### Performance
- Ring buffer capacity: 1024 frames (configurable)
- Update rate: 50Hz (20ms per frame)
- Zero busy-waiting: Condition variables ensure threads sleep when waiting
- Low-latency design: Minimal blocking between producer and consumer
- Efficient wake-up: Only one thread notified per operation (`notify_one()`)

### Advanced Simulation Features
- **Driver Skill Factor**: Speed calculation includes `driver_skill = 0.80 + consistency * 0.25`, meaning consistent drivers extract more performance
- **Variable Pit Stop Thresholds**: Range from 65-90% tire wear based on:
  - Base: `0.65 + (tire_management * 0.25)`
  - Risk adjustment: `±7.5%` based on risk tolerance
- **Variable Pit Stop Duration**: 2-3 seconds based on car reliability
- **Position Calculation**: Real-time sorting by total distance (lap distance + distance in current lap)

## Implementation Highlights

### Condition Variables
The ring buffer implementation uses condition variables to eliminate busy-waiting:

```cpp
// Consumer waits efficiently when buffer is empty
cv_not_empty_.wait(lock, [this]() { 
    return head_ != tail_ || shutdown_;
});
```

The consumer sleeps when the buffer is empty, reducing CPU usage and improving system efficiency.

### Driver Performance Model
Driver consistency directly impacts speed:
- High consistency (0.95+): Can extract 100%+ of car performance
- Low consistency (0.60): Only extracts ~80% of car performance
- This creates realistic performance gaps between drivers

### Pit Stop Strategy
Each driver has a unique pit stop threshold:
- Tire management experts (0.95): Pit at ~90% wear
- Rookies (0.58): Pit at ~70% wear (more cautious)
- Risk-takers: Pit slightly earlier, conservative drivers later

### Optimal Strategy Analysis (how it works)
When enabled at startup, the program can compute an "optimal" pit lap for a subset of drivers and feed those pit laps into the live telemetry generator.

- **Candidate laps**: `StrategyAnalyzer::PIT_LAPS_TO_TEST` defines a small set of laps to evaluate (e.g. 12, 15, 18, ...).
- **Parallel evaluation**: For a given driver, the analyzer launches multiple simulations concurrently using `std::async(std::launch::async, ...)` and collects results with `std::future<float>`.
- **Selection**: The lap with the lowest simulated finish time is chosen and applied to the live race as a single planned pit stop for that driver.

### Track Limits Monitoring (how it works)
The `TrackLimitsMonitor` processes telemetry frames to detect track limits violations with realistic frequency and consequences.

- **Sector-based checking**: Violations are only checked at sector boundaries (not every frame), ensuring realistic frequency (approximately 3 checks per lap instead of 50 per second).
- **Violation probability factors**:
  - **Aggression**: `driver.aggression * 0.01` - More aggressive drivers push limits more often
  - **Speed**: `0.005` if speed > 200 kph - Higher speeds increase violation risk
  - **Tire wear**: `tire_wear * 0.01` if wear > 60% - Worn tires reduce control
- **Penalty system**: 
  - Each violation adds a warning and records the lap number
  - After **3 warnings**, the driver receives a penalty flag (`has_penalty = true`) and a time penalty is issued via `PenaltyEnforcer`
- **Thread safety**: Uses `std::mutex` to protect the violations map during concurrent access from producer and consumer threads

### Penalty Enforcer (how it works)
The `PenaltyEnforcer` is a thread-safe penalty state machine keyed by `driver_id`.

- **Issuing**: `issuePenalty(driver_id, seconds)` marks the penalty as `PENDING` and stores the duration.
- **Serving**: The live `TelemetryGenerator` consults `shouldServePenalty(driver_id, current_time_ns)` when a driver enters the pits; if `PENDING`, it switches to `SERVING` and timestamps the start using **simulation time (ns)**.
- **Completion**: `isPenaltyComplete(driver_id, current_time_ns)` only becomes true after the simulated duration elapses, then transitions to `SERVED`.

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements:
- [ ] DRS (Drag Reduction System) modeling
- [ ] Safety car deployment
- [ ] Virtual Safety Car (VSC)
- [ ] Multi-track support with track-specific characteristics
- [ ] Qualifying sessions with grid positions
- [ ] Race incidents and DNFs (crashes, mechanical failures)
- [ ] Strategy variations (one-stop vs two-stop races)
- [ ] Yellow flag periods affecting speed
